---
id: users
title: Users
sidebar_label: Users
---

## Overview
Users means users of your website or mobile app, who open your mobile app or visit your website, do some activity on your
app like visit a page or a screen, take some action like clicks some button, buy a product or service etc.

The benefit of adding more information to a UserNDot user profile is the ability to create a user segment for 
people that have a specific profile property you define, and then build a campaign to engage with that segment. 
The second benefit of adding more information to a UserNDot user profile is the ability to personalize your 
campaign messaging with information.

### Categorizing users

1. Known Users
2. Unknown Users
3. Customers

Your application could have known or unknown users.
Known users could be those users who may be logged in or registered on your mobile app or website
while unknown users could be those who have just installed your mobile app or visited on your website and you do not know who they are.
Unknown users could be converted to known users later after they provide some information by logging in or registering.

Once a user is traced or known, she could be an existing or a new user.
If you are integrated with UserNDot, we keep track of all your known and unknown users and all the activity they do.
Along with the events, UserNDot also captures the location, device, IP address, browser details,
mobile app details, etc.
Once a user is known, all the information which was tracked while the user was
unknown also gets automatically marked to the corresponding known user. All the information which is already tracked by
you on your mobile app or website could also be added in some predefined fields or custom fields.

> **Important :** Whenever an unknown user is tracked, all the information of unknown user, gets associated with the known user

## User Attributes

User Attributes means the attributes which could be tracked as user properties by UserNDot.
User attributes could be predefined fields, like first name, last name, gender, dob, etc or custom fields
like user type, user registered on, etc.
There attributes could be later used to uniquely identify a user and could be used in segmenting users.
User attributes could be majorly divided into two types:

### Predefined User Attributes

Predefined attributes are the set of attributes, which are already defined for you by UserNDot.
You should try to use the predefined attributes if possible, and if a specific field is not there in the
list of predefined attribute, you could use custom attribute.

#### Predefined User Attributes Table

| Attribute | Type | Options / Pattern | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `email` | String | A valid email address | Email of the User |
| `uid` | String | | Id of the user on the Your platform (website or app) |
| `undId` | String | | Auto-generated ID of user generated by UserNDot (never to be sent by you) |
| `fbId` | String | | Facebook Id of the user if Facebook Login is enabled |
| `googleId` | String | | Google Id of the user if Google Login is enabled |
| `mobile` | String | Digits `should start with country code` | Mobile number of the user |
| `firstName` | String | | First Name of the user |
| `lastName` | String | | Last Name of the user |
| `gender` | String | Male or Female or Other | Gender of the user |
| `dob` | String | YYYY-MM-DD | Date of birth of the user |
| `country` | String |  | Country name of the user |
| `city` | String | | City of the user |
| `address` | String | | Address of the user |
| `countryCode` | String | from the list | Country code of the user |
| `additionalInfo` | Map<String, String> | Both key and value are String | Key Value pair of the user |


> **Important :** Mobile number should start with country code e.g. For US if your contact number is **+1 (666) 666-6666** you
should send **16666666666** as a valid mobile number. Similarly in India if your contact number is +91 999 999 9999 you should send
919999999999 as a valid mobile number.

### Custom user attributes

Any attribute which is not specified in predefined user attributes, could be specified by you with custom user 
attributes. These custom user attributes are generally defined in `additionalInfo` field.
The `additionalInfo` field could contain key value pairs, where both key and value could be strings.
An example of a custom user attribute could be
| Custom field Key | Custom field value |
|---|---|
| userType | Gold |
| profession | Architect |
| organization | ABC Associates |

While sending a message, there custom attributes could be used as fillers in your message. The template parser would
automatically parse these fillers and replace them with the specified values for that user.

## Seraching or finding users

Users could be searched from your account in 2 ways:
1. Searching directly by Identities.
2. Searching users based on their behavior or events.

### Seraching users by Identity

To look for a specific user by identity in UserNDot dashboard, go to Segments > Find Users > Find Users by ID > Select the appropriate id > Fill value > Click Find

### Searching users based on their behavior or events


## Tracking a user profile
Whenever a user logs in, register, subscribe, etc, you could track the user profile as below. As soon as the user profile is tracked,
all the events associated would get marked to this user profile.
```js
//Tracking a user profile
_und('profile',{
    "firstName": "John",
    "lastName": "Doe",
    "email": "test@example.com",
    "mobile": "12342342342",
    "dob": "1990-01-01",
    "uid": "MyUserId0001",
    "gender": "Male",
    "additionalInfo": {
        "customerType": "Gold",
        "profession": "Architect",
        "organization": "ABC Associates"
    }
});
```